---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Code of Conduct Activity"
---
#### By: Tanya Singh
###### February 6, 2022

## What is a Code of Conduct? Why is it used?

<p>Open source projects can seem difficult to execute in terms of rules, regulations, and guidelines, especially when a variety of individuals are in participation. However, in order to tackle these obstacles, developers have begun to create different sorts of Code of Conduct guidelines which outline the permissions, limitations, and conditions while working on the project. These guidelines aim to eradicate future cases of harassment, discrimination, and any safety violaltions that may occur. Not only do these documents ensure that every user and participant is able to work within a safe, respectful,  and supportive community, but also increases the productivity and efficiency of the contributors. </p>
<!--more-->

## Go Community Code of Conduct 

<p>It is interesting to see how different communities address these guidelines and we are able to see this within both, the Go Community Code of Conduct and the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct. We are able to see that the Go Community Code of Conduct is adapted from the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct. This indicates why the two documents contain many similarities, however we are able to see that the Go Community Code of Conduct is longer and goes into further depth and detail concerning each matter. The Go Community Code of Conduct introduces the matter and highlights the Gopher Values at the beginning of their document. I believe that these were added to connect the goals of the project to the expected conduct. It connects the work that is being done to the guidelines in place and emphasizes why these regulations are necessary. In a sense, I believe it is a way to de-escalate any misunderstandings or alterations that may come up while working on the project. Similarly, Go added a section in regards to Conflict Resolution. This section validates that it is normal for individuals to disagree and that it isn’t necessarily a bad thing. However, it is important that during these phases of disagreement, it is important to maintain respect and to continue following the guidelines in place. Following this, Go addresses that users should report matters if it is deemed necessary and also includes contact information to do so. While this is similar to the Enforcement section of the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct, I think Go did a good job adapting and adding to this section. They expand on how they deal with these matters and give users a sense of peace and trust that they will be a part of a safe community. They emphasize that these matters will be dealt with seriously and enforce that they do not allow any behavior of this kind. </p>

## Eclipse's Code of Conduct 

Many other projects have also adapted the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct. One of the many projects includes Eclipse, a software that I have heavily used and relied on in the past. The Eclipse code of conduct can be found <a href="https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php#:~:text=Our%20Standards&text=Using%20welcoming%20and%20inclusive%20language,is%20best%20for%20the%20community">here</a>. The Eclipse Code of Conduct is a bit different from the Go Code of Conduct. It is evident that Go has modified and inserted more additions and customizations to their code of conduct in comparison to Eclipse. Whereas Eclipse’s Code of Conduct is more so the same as the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct and has not been modified nearly as much. 

## Sugar Lab Code of Conduct 

<p>Projects can also adapt their codes of conduct from other organizations. This can be seen while viewing the code of conduct document for the Sugar Labs project. At first glance, it is very evident that this document is different from the others we have looked at. We can see that this code of conduct has been adapted from and is based on the <a href="https://ubuntu.com/community/code-of-conduct">Ubuntu Code of Conduct</a>. While the structure of the Sugar Labs code of conduct is different, I believe that it contains similar content to that of the Go Code of Conduct. I believe that a majority of the document highlights similar beliefs as seen in the “Our Standards” Section of both the Go Community Code of Conduct and the Contributor Covenant Code of Conduct. However, it also addresses similar points of the other sections found in the Go Community Code of Conduct as well. While the Sugar Labs Code of Conduct is fairly shorter than the other ones we have viewed, I believe it still is just as effective as others. If I had to make a suggestion in improving the code of conduct, I would suggest adding a contact address or a means of communication to report any found incidents that go against Sugar Lab’s Code of Conduct. </p>

## React's Code of Conduct 
<p>An open source project that I have been interested in lately is React. I find this project interesting because it is a library that I frequently use and have extensive knowledge about. Within React’s GitHub I was able to find their code of conduct. It was linked under their code of conduct section in their README file. The code of conduct can be found <a href="https://opensource.fb.com/code-of-conduct/">here</a>. I was able to see that their code of conduct was also adapted from the Contributor Covenant. Similar to Eclipse, React has also not added many modifications to the code of conduct from Contributor Covenant. It is fairly reasonable to assume that many projects do not modify and customize their code of conduct to the same extent as Go has. </p>

## Conclusion 
<p>Looking and reading more into Code of Conduct documents has been really interesting. I never realized that many open source projects include a document of this type. I think it is important that these guidelines are highlighted and enforced because it only makes open source projects more accessible and open to many users to use. Individuals, similar to myself, who may not have as much experience working within projects like these may be scared or intimidated to contribute, however these documents allow new participants to see that they are accepted and welcome to join the community. It makes individuals feel safe and accepted to contribute and ultimately allows for a diverse range of contributors to the project. There are so many individuals with a wide range of backgrounds that are able to make all these different contributions which allow each project to become the best version of itself. </p>

