---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: Group Project Presentations & Progress Reports"
---

#### By: Tanya Singh
###### April 25, 2022 

This past week each group presented their current progress on their group contributions. It was really great to see the different type of contributions that each group is making and see how groups working within the same project have approached making contributions. In another sense, it was sort of relieving to see that other groups have been encountering similar obstacles as us and hearing about how they have decided to troubleshoot and move forward to continue making progress. Unfortunately, most of our current issues are technical and we have been unable to make significant progress in other contributions as we have been trying to debug and resolve our current issues. Listening to the different ways my peers were able to deal with specific struggles I was able to gain a lot of insight in the way to work around any similar difficulties in the future. Something that I found interesting was the different ways projects go about reviewing and approving contributions - something in particular that has been a giant roadblock. I was surpised to hear that some of the groups were required to reach out to specific maintainers in order to receive approval. It's very different from the structure and organization of how we go about making PRs and contributions. 

While my team continues to make weekly progress in our contributions, we are at a bit of a roadblock. We had to reach out to the maintainers of Zulip in order to complete our claimed issues, however we have yet to hear back from them. This was a bit odd as prior to these issues, they were really quick with responding to our inquiries. We're still hopeful and I hope by the end of this week we will have everything merged. By the end of this week, we should have another issue claimed as well. After hearing from the other groups, I'm curious if there are any non-coding / documentation issues we can contribute to while we wait for these technical issues to be resolved. 