---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Open Source Benefiting Communities"
---

#### By: Tanya Singh
###### March 6, 2022 

This past week we further dove into the benefits of open source software. While in the past, we have had many discussions about the benefits of open source projects, we have never explicitly talked about the different doors open-source projects open in terms of accessibility and helping specific communities. It was really an eye opening and inspiring discussion because we were able to see that the benefits of open source far exceed just developments and contributions to code. 

<!--more-->

## Christopher Snyder and TidePool 
 On Tuesday, we had a discussion with [Christopher Snyder](https://www.linkedin.com/in/christopherasnider/) from [TidePool](https://www.tidepool.org/open). Unfortunately, due to personal reasons I was unable to attend class on Tuesday. I was really upset after realizing that I missed our discussion with Snyder as prior to that class we had to do some readings and watch videos that were in relation to him and the work he does at TidePool. His work and the work being done at TidePool really struck a chord with me because it was similar to the efforts I was working on this past summer. I worked closely with CGM devices and was working on creating a portal accessible by patients, providers, and health insurance companies. However, a major part of this project was focused on ensuring that this type of application would be accessible by all. As the company I was woking for, HealthFirst, is a not for profit organization based in New York that has been working with and serving communities of New York for over 20 years. They are focused towards helping individuals of low income communitiies obtain health insurance and guaranttee the coverage everyone deserves. Thus, the topic I focused my work aroumd was creating an application that could be accessible by all HealthFirst patients. However, we had to keep in mind that there were some patients who didn't have access to smart devices or internet. Thus, we discussed different devices that could be used and distributed to all patients as well as the logistics of providing the necessary resources to make use of these devices. It was interesting to see two different appraoches of ensuring acceessibility to patients who need access to the statistics of these monitoring devices. Because on one hand, we were only thinking about our specific 


## Open Efforts in Communities 
I think it is so inspiring that there are projects that share similar missions to help specific communities. It is so important that people are able to recognize their privilege and work towards helping individuals who don't share the same resources and liberties. 