---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Git Activity & Meeting with Jim Hall" 
---

#### By: Tanya Singh
###### February 13, 2022

As we entered our third week of classes, we began talking about technologies we'll be utilizing throughout the semester. We began discussing Version Control Systems and also had an introduction to Git. Later in the week, we were given the opportunity to speak with [Jim Hall](https://hallmentum.com/about/jimhall/), the founder and project coordinator of the [FreeDOS](https://www.freedos.org/) Project. As a long time professional in the field, Hall gave us an insightful presentation about FreeDOS and answered many of our questions about Open Source Projects. 

<!--more-->

## Version Control Systems
On Tuesday, we went over version control systems. While this wasn't an unfamiliar topic, as I've learned about version control systems in the past and have been working with Git for a while now, I really enjoyed going into more depth about them and was able to grasp a deeper understanding about what a version control system really is. While they are often used for managing software, a common misconception about version control systems are that they are solely used in terms of coding and developing, however many different professions and types of individuals utilize them in different ways. 

### So, what is a version control system?

A version control system is a system that keeps track and manages prior and present versions of files. By doing this, these systems are able to access and restore any past versions of files if necessary. Version controls are very useful, especially in terms of group work. It ensures that no contributions get lost and combats any possible conflicting files. Version control systems allows for individuals to work seamlessly and keeps track of each individuals specific contributions. This is useful for many different reasons, especially for making sure that no one is intentionally messing with the code :flushed: :grin:. 

As I stated earlier, version control isn't just useful for software management. These systems are also useful when working with any types of files, such as graphics, novels, documentations, artwork, and webpages. These are only a few of the many types of files that can make use of these types of softwares. 


## Git 

A version control system I am pretty comfortable using is Git. For the past two years, I have been working with Git and have been advancing my knowledge of working with it. While I don't believe I am an expert of any sort, I do believe that I know the basics and can work comfortably with Git. I've realized that there are many online resources that are widely available in case I ever run into any problems. Additionally, I have extensive prior experience working with Github. I am comfortable using the project and task boards and have worked with Agile projects that have utilized these resources in the past. 

In class, we began an introduction to git activity. It was a really rewarding activity as I was able to extend my knowledge using Git. While I believe I am well versed using Git, I was surprised that I hadn't previously known how to use remote connections to keep track and maintain a connection with repositories I have forked. This allows for users to stay up to date with any changes that occur in the original repository. I haven't fork many repositories in the past so it was great to extend my knowledge working in this regard - it will definitely be a skill I can utilize in the future!

During this activity, we forked a repository and cloned it to our local computers. We played with the commands ```git log```, ```git remote -v``` and ```git status```. We then added a remote connection to our copies to stay up to date on any changes that occur in the main repository. Additionally, we worked with adding files to the staging area, commiting the changes, and then pushing these changes to our fork. We went over the importance of utilizing ```git pull``` and when we should be calling this command to prevent any merge conflicts. These exercises were very helpful and it was really great getting a refresher on these commands. These are commands that are regularly used when working with Git, so I appreciate going over them again and also getting a deeper explanation behind each of the commands. 


## Discussion With Jim Hall 
On Thursday, we got the opportunity to speak with Jim Hall over zoom. He was a great speaker and was really able to engage all of us throughout the discussion, despite being in the virtual universe :satisfied:. He spoke about his contributions to [FreeDOS](https://www.freedos.org/) and also what FreeDOS has implemented to ensure a welcoming and productive open source community. It was inspiring to be able to hear first-hand, from such a practiced figure in the industry, and be encouraged and motivated to work towards similar goals. It was crazy to see the amount of change the industry and technology has been through over the years. It was cool to see what has led our techhnology to be this advanced, and to see the extent of growth the community has seen in such a short period of time. I think open source projects have been a huge factor in this growth. This new type of collaboration has allowed such a diverse range of backgrounds and individuals to come together and collaborate - in ways that were never possible before. From manifests and README's being translated to a plethora of languages, to these codes being easily accessible to anyone with an internet connectoon, I believe these types of projects have been a huge factoor behind the growth in technology over the years and will continue to help it grow in the time to come. 