---
layout: post
title: "Week 8: The Beginning of Our Project Group Work & Invited Speaker, Tom Callaway"
---


#### By: Tanya Singh
###### March 27, 2022 

This past week has been pretty busy! We began the week by being paired into our projects groups and finalizing an open source project to contribute to and ended the week with an invited speaker, Tom Callaway. 

<!--more-->

### Zulip 

On Tuesday, we were paired into groups of three. For the remainder of the semester we'll be working within our groups to make meaningful contributions to a project of our choosing. My group decided on the open source project, [Zulip](https://zulip.com/). 
In simple terms, Zulip is an open-source Slack. Zulip is a software that combines real time chat with asynchronous communication. As stated on their website, their design was inspired by email's highly effective threading model. This software is the only app that handles both synchronous and asynchronous communication and organizes them in an efficient way. Zulip was one of the projects that I had actually evaluated a week prior and I was able to get a really good feel of the project by completing the evaluation. While doing the evaluation, I was impressed by both the community and by the organization of the repository. The two heavily used languages within the project were Python and JavaScript, and my group members and I all believed that we had adequate knowledge and experience with these languages to make meaningful contributions. I'm really excited to contribute to Zulip and I believe that we'll be able to complete great work during the remainder of the semester.

After deciding on Zulip, our group discussed further details and logistics for our group work. We created a group chat amongst ourselves and decided on a weekly meeting day and time, and also indicated other times in the week that would be possible if needed. We also agreed on goals for the week. Our goals consisted of reading through the repository and important files, joining and introducing ourselves on the Zulip Community Chat, and installing all necessary dependencies and setting up the environment on our local systems. As we all use Macs, troubleshooting any issues should be fairly simple. Even though I didn't know either of my group members before this class, our group had a really great dynamic and I was happy to realize that I'll be working alongside two kind and hardworking individuals. I'm really excited to see all the progress and work we're able to make!  

### Speaking With Tom Callaway 

On Thursday, we had an invited speaker, [Tom Callaway](https://www.linkedin.com/in/spotfoss/), present via Zoom. Tom Callaway worked at Red Hat for almost twenty years, and currently works at Amazon Web Services (AWS) as an open source evangelist. He spoke with us about open source and brought up many thought provoking points during his presentation. He spoke about how open source is everywhere and how companies are opening up more and more to the idea of becoming open source. Ultimately, by becoming open source, companies are opening many new doors and opportunities for themselves. Fundamentally, a huge interest in open source is because of the money, however, while there are many other reasons, money is typically the driving factor. We also spoke about how consumers and users tend to prefer and appreciate open source models. Tom brought up so many great points throughout the presentation and explained his reasoning in a very thoughtful way. He talked about the advantages for both companies and users to make usee of open source models and even spoke about why AWS, a well-known renound company, cares about open source. It was really great hearing the reasoning and insight behind Amazon's actions. After completing his presentation, he followed with questions from our class. My classmates brought up many great points and questions. Some of these included discussion around compensating contributors and earning trust from smaller companies. Overall, it was a really rewarding and enrichng experience. 