---
layout: post
title: "Week 1: My Introduction to Open Source" 
---

#### By: Tanya Singh
###### January 30, 2022

As a CS student, I’ve heard the term “open source” a multitude of times. Whether in regard to vamping up my resume or in recommendation for brushing up and maintaining my skills, it always came up in conversations surrounding my future career.  However, it always seemed very daunting and intimidating and I was always somewhat terrified to take part in it. In a way, I never really knew where to begin and also didn’t know what or how I, a somewhat *clueless* college student, could contribute to such prestigious projects. So as I approached my final semester at NYU I decided enough was enough and that it was time for me to get over my fears and enroll in this class. As an aspiring software developer, this was definitely something I needed to understand and also be an active part of. I believe that after learning more about open source this past week, I have come to understand both the pros and cons of open source. I believe open source, for multiple reasons, allows for an easier experience all together for many different people, in the sense of personal benefits and also community benefits. It also vastly contributes to and impacts the quality. 
<!--more-->
I didn’t realize that there were so many open source projects that I use on a regular basis. After our two classes, I realized that open source projects were a lot more widespread and common than I had ever anticipated. I was shocked to find out that softwares such as Java, Python, PHP, React, WordPress, Firefox, and FileZilla were just a handful of the many open source softwares. These are softwares that I have regularly used throughout my career at NYU and outside of it as well. It’s funny because some of them aren’t that frequently used anymore or seem like ‘older’ softwares and it's interesting to see that they're open source and are still being worked on. Others such as WordPress and FileZilla are two softwares that I have heavily relied on in the past and have helped me so much. In a way, it is somewhat fascinating to think that I could someday even contribute to these technologies. Others such as Python, React, and Java are some that I use quite often and it’s cool in a sense to think that they are continuously updating and improving. It ensures the quality in these softwares and also gives users confidence that bugs and small issues won’t cause any long-term issues to arise. The success and large scale use of these languages speak and show for itself. I feel that now that I am aware of these types of projects, they’ll become even more apparent and I’ll recognize them a lot more. I’m excited to be a part of these contributions and I can’t wait to see all that I’ve accomplished at the end of the semester. 

