---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Getting Familiar With Zulip"
---


#### By: Tanya Singh
###### April 3, 2022 

This past week has been very busy! During class on Tuesday, we completed our midterm assessment where we were able to reflect and provide insight on our growth and knowledge from the past 9+ weeks. On Thursday, we regrouped and continued to work on our group contributions. The evening prior, Wednesday evening, we were also able to meet up as a group for our weekly meeting and were able to finalize specific logistics and famiiliarize ourselves with the community and environment. So during class on Thursday, we were able to continue and build upon all that we had worked on and talked about the night before. 

<!--more-->

I specifically struggled with getting the development environment installed onto my local machine. While there were many tedious steps required to fully install the environment, it was pretty straightforward and simple to get through. This is why I was shocked when I began to run into some trouble midway. My laptop was having trouble access one of the necessary apps and even though I went through the Troubleshooting and FAQ sections on both the website and in the community channel, there were no answers to be found. So much of my time went towards trying to figure out why the full environment woudn't install. However, out of frustation and as a last hope, I deleted all the files, restarted my laptop, and reinstalled them all. And of course, it worked. I realized I need to use that method more often when things don't work. 

In addition to all of us installing and setting up the environments on our laptops, we also began to look through the issues on the repo. We decided that it would probably best if we worked on an issue with the label "good-first-issue" and while we work on this issue, we'll reach out to the team and ask them if there are any specific issues they would like for us to work on. By dong this, we'll be able to familiarize ourselves with the logistics behind contributing to Zulip and simultaneously get to know the community better and also make our presence known. Additionally, by reaching out and inquiring about specific targets, we'll be able to ensure that we are making significant contributions to the project. As of right now, it is looking up for our group and I'm excited to see all that we can achieve by the end of this semester! 