---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Discussion with Riju Khatri & Beginning of Project Presentations"
---

#### By: Tanya Singh
###### May 2, 2022 

On Tuesday, we got to meet with an NYU graduate student, Riju Khatri[https://www.linkedin.com/in/riju-khatri/?originalSubdomain=in]. She had a great deal of experience and has been a part of three open source communities: Fedora, OpenStack, and Mozilla. She was able to give us a great deal of insight in working with open source projects and the benefits of them. While we've had many discussions and have talked immensely about the benefits of open source, she brought up some new points that I haven't heard brought up before. The benefits she listed were as follows: looks great on your resume, adds to your confidence, makes people curious, speaks about your passion for tech, and you get to network with great minds across the globe. While each point makes clear sense as to how they are applicable, it allowed for me to think about open source in a new light. As I've learned more and becomee comforttable with open source I've really been able to add to my confidence and skills in CS. I think before this class I still had a bit of imposter syndrome when it came to my ability in CS and didn't believe I could make valuable contributions to *legit* code. However, after making and having approved contributions for such large projects and organizations, Iv'e been able to gain confidence in my knowledge. It's always great to be able to think about things in a new light, and I am so glad Riju was able to allow me to do that. She has made such great contributions and achievements throughout her career and I'm hopeful to be able to do the same. 

On Thursday we began our presentations for our projects. It was so great to see all the work the other groups were able to do. In one way, it was comforting to see that we weren't the only group that ran into frequent difficulties. Other groups also shared that they had difficulty with setting up their environments and others with receiving responses from the community. However, I was also shocked by the number of PR's the other groups were able to make. They were able to claim and resolve a large number of issues while my group really struggled in that aspect. One of the groups, however, had stated that they realized that effort is hard to conceptualize. It was a great reminder that I needed while I began to doubt my own progress. I realized that there were many things I wish I would have done differently coming into this project and how much I was actually able to learn. I made so many little mistakes and errors to accomplish such small tasks, but going forward I know how to avoid those issues. So while I wasn't able to make as many contributions as I had hoped I definitely gained so much out of my experience. It was so great to be a part of such a supportive community. And while I would probably choose a different project to contribute to in the future, working on Zulip was such a great experience. Seeing the amount of contributions the other groups were able to make and the great experiences they had, I am so excited to continue my journey with open source. 