---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Open Source Software Business Models & Making Contributions to Zulip"
---


#### By: Tanya Singh
###### April 10, 2022 

Going forward, each week we will have one class dedicated to project work and another dedicated to lecture and discussion. On Tuesday, we talked about Open Source as a Business Model and how many companies and projects have quickly adapted their ways to take part in, and make use of this model. During class on Thursday, we spent the period working in our groups to continue making progress on our contributions. 

<!--more-->

### Open Source as a Business Model 

Contrary to the title of this blog and to the header above, open source is in fact NOT a business model. Rather, there are business models that are built around open source projects. In class we talked about many of the different business models that have been developed to incorporate open source sofwares and the reason behind their success. We discussed how unlike other models, many people are not into open source projects for the money or the job, but for the passion and desire behind the work. These contributors and individuals are taking part in something they have always wanted to build while also being a part of and having a sense of a community. We spoke about how RedHat was the first company that successfully made money around open source software and also spoke about the relationship between RedHat and Fedora. RedHat is a version of linux and Fedora is open source code. 

We also spoke in detal about the concept of an Open Core business model. The idea behind an Open Core business model is to keep two versions of the software where the core of the project is available as open source, while other implementations such as add ons, customizations, and improvements are proprietary. Open Core is a very succesful business model that many companies such as Pivotal, GitLab, and Redis Labs use. 

In addition, many other forms of business models have been created to incorporate and make use of open source software such as software consulting, subscription offerings, donations, SaaS (Software as a Service), and Dual Licensing / Selling Exceptions. 


### Our Group's Progress 

This week we were able to make a great amount of progress. We embarked on claiming our own issue to work on and even made ur first PR. While our PR was not accepted, the community was very kind and respectful and thanked us for our work. They included a very detailed comment on why it was rejected and what we would need to fix to get our contribution approved. They requested an additinal screenshot, to ensure that our PR followed the proper styling (modifying the commit message and PR description), and to also fix our failing test. While the first two are very simple fixes, we realized that the failing test is definitely going to be our focus during our meeting on Wednesday. It was really exciting submitting our first PR and I'm very happy with the way the community and moderators have been treating us so far. The community itself is very large and full of many passionate computer scientists. I have even had other contributors send me private messages on Zulip asking about our PR. At first I was really intimidated to make contributions, however, through this process I was able to see that while it isn't a piece of cake, making contrbutions is definitely something I, and other students, are very capable of. I think the biggst challenge is the initial obstacle of familiarizing oneself to the styling and guidelines of a project. The only issues we have come across thus far is ensuring that we followed the proper guidelines, and even this is not high stakes at all. While at first, it was a little difficult navigating through the code, after some time we were quickly able to make sense of it. I'm so glad that we decided to join the Zulip community as we have been welcomed and guided with open arms. I would highly suggest any cs student to look into conributing to Zulip!