---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: My First Open Source Project!" 
---

#### By: Tanya Singh
###### February 20, 2022

As we reach our fouth blog post of the semester, we hit one month of classes! It was really great entering this week by presenting our browser extensions to the class. It was also so great seeing the work created by my classmates. The presentations went so well and I was so proud presenting **my first open-source project ever**! It was a really fun class where we were all able to interact with one another and also get to know each other a bit more. Later in the week, we went over project evaluations; basically, how to take precautions and ensure that a potential project you're considering contributing to is reliable and active. 

<!--more-->

## Slap-A-Fetti 

The open-source extension my group began creating was called [Slap-A-Fetti](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/slap-a-fetti). We made this extension with the intentions of creating a fun and playful add-on that users can use in many ways - whether it's used to play a prank on a friend or used for personal leisuree to jazz up a webpage, the options are endless! Feel free to check out our [GitHub](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/slap-a-fetti) repository if you're interested. 

Our group initially decided on creating an extension called *Slap-A-Stache*. This extension would use face detection to add a mustache to any detected faces on the webpage. However, we quickly realized that this idea was a bit too ambitious and would be quite difficult to impliment. After reconvening, we decided on **Slap-A-Fetti**, a fun extension to liven and spruce up any webpage. Ideally, we want this extension to be fully equipped with loud sounds, horns, bright colors - the whole shabam. Ultimately, we want it to be as annoying as possible. However, due to time constraints, we were only able to implement the confetti in the background and currently have a bug where our confetti messes up the webpage - definitely showcasing the *annoying* we were going for. Currently our extension only runs on the Mozilla homepage, but we're hoping in the future it will be operational on any and all webpages. However, our extension *is* open source and we are open to accepting any and all contributions (if you follow our [guidelines](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/slap-a-fetti/blob/4fbcb424b61fc63c91ad069fdab30df7f7302f4b/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) of course)! Our ReadME includes information about installing the extension, cloning the repo, and even includes information about our Code of Conduct, our license, information regarding how individuals can contribute to our project, and even our contact information. 

### My Contributions 

During this activity, I mainly focused on the documentation of our project and making sure that our repository contains all the resources necessary to make it an open source project. I was in charge of creating the Code of Conduct, writing up the installation guide, and making sure all of our necessary information was included within our ReadME file. I adapted our Code of Conduct from the [Contributor Covenant](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/), version 1.4. After our activity  last week, in which we looked at many different code of conducts and focused on their similarities and differences, it was great using what I learned from that session to decide on the best way to create a Code of Conduct for our project. While writing the installation guide, I learned how important it was to be concise and clear, in order to ensure that any user would be able to access our extension and our code. I looked at many different examples and was able to see the best way to go about creating ours. It was fun being able to play with and use different Markdown formatting syntax to display our guide. I was able to learn a lot through this process and was able to really grasp just how important documentation is in regards to software development. It was eye-opening in a sense because throughout my CS career at NYU all of my classes have been so focused on the coding aspects of software development. We never talked about or even mentioned the documentation that is usually required and accompanies our code. 

I really enjoyed working in a group of three. Both of my group members were so kind and helpful, and also made sure to maintain clear communication throughout the duration of the activity. Everyone joined meetings on time and made many helpful contributions to our project. My partners, Crystal and Victoria, both worked on the code and did such an impressive job coding out the initial version of our extension. It felt weird not contributing much to the code because that has never been the case in any group work I've done within a CS course before. I felt bad that they managed to figure it out on their own, however I tried my best to make up for it by putting in the same amount of effort into our documentation and making sure that our repository was spot on. 

## Class Projects 

It was so great seeing my classmates extensions and to see what the other groups came up with. It was interesting to see how we were all given the same instructions, yet we all came up with such different ideas to present to the class. It was fun to talk about how we could combine all of our creations and create this *mega* extension. Overall, I think the activity was really enjoyable because while the biggest takeaway from our work was learning how to build a working, functional open source project, we were also allowed to let our imaginations roam free. After everything we've learned this past month, it's cool to think about how we now have the knowledge and resources to contribute to each other's works. 